mash_dist
=========

Purpose
-------

This component executes mash dist to find plasmids
within high throughoput sequencing data, using as inputs fasta files
(e.g. contigs). Then, the resulting file can
be imported into `pATLAS <http://www.patlas.site/>`_.
This component calculates pairwise distances between sequences
(one from the database and the query sequence).
However, this process can be user for other purposes, by providing a different
database than the default that is intended for plasmid searches.

.. note::
    - pATLAs documentation can be found `here <https://tiagofilipe12.gitbooks.io/patlas/content/>`_.
    - MASH documentation can be found `here <https://mash.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.


Input/Output type
------------------

- Input type: ``Fasta``
- Output type: ``JSON``


Parameters
----------

- ``mash_distance``: Sets the maximum distance between two sequences to be
  included in the output. Default: 0.1.

.. note::
    The subtraction of 1 - `mash_distance` can be used as an approximation to
    Average Nucleotide Identity (ANI). For instance a mash distance of 0.1 well
    correlates with ANI at 0.9 (90%).

- ``pValue``: P-value cutoff for the distance estimation between two sequences
  to be included in the output. Default: 0.05.

- ``shared_hashes``: Sets a minimum percentage of hashes shared between two
  sequences in order to include its result in the output. Default: 0.8.

- ``refFile``: Specifies the reference file to be provided to mash. It can either
  be a fasta or a .msh reference sketch generated by mash.
  Default: '/ngstools/data/patlas.msh'.


Published results
-----------------

- ``results/mashdist/``: A `JSON` file that can be imported to `pATLAS <http://www.patlas.site/>`_
  with the results from mash dist.


Published reports
-----------------

None.


Default directives
------------------

- ``runMashDist``:
    - ``container``: tiagofilipe12/patlasflow_mash_screen
    - ``version``: 1.1
- ``mashDistOutputJson``:
    - ``container``: tiagofilipe12/patlasflow_mash_screen
    - ``version``: 1.1
